We stopped and think about the scripture text for today was taken from an article that dealt with how to help
couples who are perhaps having difficulties in their marriage to resolve them and to move forward and
We contrast that with the the world
You know the world when they before they get married they anticipate they're going to have problems and conflicts and
They've already mapped a route for
Leaving the marriage if things are too inconvenient for them or it's just not working for them and
And that's really because they don't know our God Jehovah do they?
They don't know how he feels and the depth of his feelings and when we stop and consider marriage and the institution of marriage that he
inaugurated back in the Garden of Eden. We see a great contrast
He did not want marriage just to be a contractual agreement something for
convenience or
personal interests or even just for procreation purposes
He didn't want it to be a heavy burden for instance that genesis to 24 when Jehovah did perform the first marriage
He didn't say that is why a man will leave his father and mother and they will be stuck with each other for the rest of their lives
as if committing them to a life sentence or a punishment
No, but when we read Jehovah's words on this in this scripture
We we hear in Jehovah a great deal of affection and even sentiment
about the couple Adam and Eve
When he says that is why a man will leave his father and mother and he will stick to his wife and
They will become one flesh
You see in this we learn about Jehovah as truly love being his dominant quality and how he convey that dominant quality
into his earthly
Creation humans made in his image
Adam and Eve had the capacity then of developing such a love for one another that they would literally cling to one another hold on to one another
And this is an important aspect of marriage
Especially as imperfect people living in the time of the end
We have to cling to one another in order to get through the
The tribulations of the flesh and other difficulties that come in on married people today
But we see though in analyzing this we get to know our God Jehovah and
The deep love that he himself has and conveys to his people
Jehovah is a superlative example of a man if you will a person who clung to his
wife and why do we say that?
Consider how he viewed ancient Israel open your Bibles, please to the book of Isaiah and
chapter 54 and verse 5
Here we read for your grand maker is as your husband
Jehovah of armies is his name
Now true we think of the covenant that Jehovah
Initiated with the his ancient people Israel. They they were bound together in a covenant agreement, but what was behind it?
It was love
Jehovah made that clear to his people
When the this contract this covenant was inaugurated at Deuteronomy chapter 7 and
Verses 7 and 8
Notice what Jehovah through Moses said says it was not because you were the most numerous of all the people's that Jehovah showed affection for you and
chose you
You were the smallest of all the peoples
Rather it was because of Jehovah's love for you
And because he kept the oath that he sworn to his forefathers
Love was behind this love is what motivated Jehovah to make a covenant with Abraham and pass that on to Isaac Jacob and to other faithful men like David later on
It was love that moved him to engage this covenant
He found someone that was of the same mind and heart as him who could he who he could use to work out his purpose on
behalf of mankind
Jehovah gave them his very best
He clung to him
looked after them
And how deeply it pained him when his
covenant people
wife if you will
Turned unfaithful to him rejected him
Jehovah's feelings are pure and deep and so Jehovah felt truly betrayed
And deeply cut to the heart
Now he really wanted to make this clear to his people
Especially the 10 tribe kingdom who were so spiritually bankrupt that they lost total sense of what Jehovah was all about
So before he pronounced judgment upon them
He made very clear to them just how he felt about them and what they had done to him and how did he do that?
He commissioned his prophet Hosea to
With a very difficult assignment
Turn with me please to the book of Hosea
and chapter 1
I notice what right away what Hosea was to do chapter 1 and verse 2
He says when Jehovah started to speak with his speakers word through Hosea
Jehovah said to Hosea
Go marry a woman of prostitution and have children of prostitution
Because by prostitution the land has turned completely away from following Jehovah
Can you imagine getting that assignment
Here you are a virgin
Never been married before and you're told now to go marry someone that you know is going to be unfaithful to you
And Jehovah did that
He wanted to show in a very real way to this hardhearted people
Just what his feelings were and what he was going through in dealing with them
This was a drama not of actors but a real life people that we can just imagine those in the village of Hosea what they were thinking
Here this prophet of God and here this woman was just
Cheating on him and treating him very very badly
Anybody with any kind of spiritual sense would have been cut to the heart
And Jehovah he reached out to those who were cut to the heart because he says
You're going to be this land is going to be destroyed you're going to be off and as exiles
But I'm going to call you back and Hosea 3 1 says
Then Jehovah said to me go once again love the woman who is loved by another man
And it's committing adultery just as Jehovah loves the people of Israel
While they turn to other gods and low raising cakes
Jehovah loved them
And those that loved him after exile returned and then they went back to Jerusalem to continue worshiping God there
Certainly when we consider the history of Israel they we feel or know that Jehovah had definitely a legal right to just do away with them
But he didn't
Why because there were things to be considered
There was a great deal riding on this relationship
He was working out his purpose on behalf of mankind the Messiah was going to come through this nation and so despite
All the immorality that the people of Israel committed by going to the nations and worshiping bails and whatnot
All this unfaithfulness Jehovah says I'm going to take her back and continue working with her
However
There there was a limit to this
And when Jesus came to the earth we know that Jehovah had reached his limit with his people
Especially when they put his only begotten son to death and we can see the remorse that the pain of heart that Jehovah had
Perfectly reflected in Jesus at Luke chapter 19 verses 41 and 42
Here it says when Jesus that is when when he got near nearby that is to Jerusalem. He viewed the city and
Wept over it saying
If you even you had discerned on this day the things having to do with peace
But now they have been hidden from your eyes. It was too late too far gone
The relationship the marriage was going to come to an end and it hurt deeply
You see an understanding the marriage relationship and how Jehovah uses this relationship in a very real way
We can understand Jehovah better. We get to know how deeply he feels
about mankind
How he treasures mankind
But also how he treasures his purpose and wanting to help people
He feels for those who are going through tribulation in the flesh
And especially he feels deeply for those whose mate have proven unfaithful
Jehovah knows completely the emotions the gamut of emotions
That such ones go through and he is there to help and to help them work through this and making appropriate decisions that are good for them
Oftentimes with such ones we see how Jehovah has blessed them with new assignments and yes
Even a new mate that loves Jehovah and they're often faithfully serving their God together
easing their pain
So by imitating God's love cultivating God's love in our marriages and understanding marriage we understand Jehovah better
He does not want any of us to view marriage or any assignment as something that is a life sentence or a drudgery a burden
But no
Through love we are able to cultivate marriages and have a life
Whatever situation we may in that will truly bring us joy and happiness